# MTSA 2023 Corpus
## Individual- vs. Multiple-Objective Strategies for Targeted Sentiment Analysis in Finances Using the Spanish. 
Multitarget sentiment analysis extracts the subjective polarity of text from multiple targets simultaneously in a given context. This approach is useful in finance, where opinions about different entities affect the target differently. Examples of possible targets are other companies and society. However, typical multitarget solutions are resource-intensive due to the need to deploy multiple classification models for each target. An alternative to this is the use of multiobjective training approaches, where a single model is capable of handling multiple targets. In this work, we propose the Spanish MTSACorpus 2023, a novel corpus for multitarget sentiment analysis in finance, and we evaluate its reliability with several large language models for multiobjective training. To this end, we compare three design approaches: (i) a Main Economic Target (MET) detection model based on token classification plus a multiclass classification model for sentiment analysis for each target; (ii) a MET detection model based on token classification but replacing the sentiment analysis models with a multilabel classification model; and (iii) using seq2seq-type models, such as mBART and mT5, to return a response sequence containing the MET and the sentiments of different targets. Based on the computational resources required and the performance obtained, we consider the fine-tuned mBART to be the best approach, with a mean F1 of 80.300\%
